PAGES 25
--- PAGE 1 ---
   
WRO® 2026 
ROBO 
TEAMS COMPETE WITH 2 ROBOTS IN AN EXCITING GAME  
AGE GROUP: 11-19  
VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2026 – EMBARGO! 
WRO international premium partners 
WRO international gold partners 
--- PAGE 2 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 2 / 25 
 
Table of Contents  1. General information ................................................................................................................ 3 2. Team and Age Groups definitions ....................................................................................... 4 3. Responsibilities and team’s own work ................................................................................ 4 4. Game documents and rule hierarchy .................................................................................. 5 5. WRO Double Tennis – Game Description & Game Field .................................................. 6 6. WRO Double Tennis – Specific Game Rules ...................................................................... 8 7. WRO Double Tennis – Scoring ........................................................................................... 14 8. Robot material & regulations .............................................................................................. 16 9. Game table and equipment ................................................................................................. 18 10. Ideas for simplification ......................................................................................................... 21 11. Glossary ................................................................................................................................. 22 12. Appendix – Table of Decisive Cases ................................................................................. 23  Updates on the general rules from 2025 to 2026 5. Added a 9th orange ball in the middle of the field. This has implications any many other rules, because the worst result is now 9:-4 instead of 8:-4 5. Length of match is random between one and two minutes. The exact time is randomized right before the begin of the match. 6.30. All balls will be considered for this rule not only orange balls. 8. Open RoboSports for all robots and set general robot limitations. All changes are marked in yellow. In addition, please note that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules, which can be found in the official WRO Questions & Answers section of the WRO website. The answers are supplementary to the rules.  You can find the WRO 2026 Q&A on this page:  https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/    IMPORTANT: Use of this document in national tournaments The rules in this document are used for the judging at international events.  This rule document is made for all WRO events around the world, but for the national competitions, a WRO National Organizer has the right to adapt these international rules to suit local circumstances. All teams participating in a national WRO competition should use the General Rules as provided by their National Organizer. 
--- PAGE 3 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 3 / 25 
1. General information  Introduction  In the WRO RoboSports category teams design robots that compete with robots of another team.  In a match two teams each have 2 robots on the field. The robots are coded to play the game autonomously and collaborate with each other where possible. The sport that is played by the robots changes every 4-5 years.  Focus Areas  Every WRO category and game has a special focus on learning with robots. At the WRO Double Tennis Game, students will focus on developing in the following areas:  - More advanced coding skills (repeating algorithms for a good game play). - Communication between robots and planning collaborative actions. - Orientation of the robot on the field in an environment with other robots that move. - General engineering skills (building robots that can push/shoot objects of certain sizes) and advanced kinematics (omni-directional robots). - application of imaging using cameras and sensors - Strategy and tactics changing depending on the opponent’s robot’s behavior. - Teamwork, communication, problem solving, creativity.  Learning is most important WRO wants to inspire students around the world into STEM-related subjects and we want the students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. This is why the following aspects are key to all our competition programs: v Teachers, parents or other adults can help, guide and inspire the team, but they are not allowed to build or code/program the robot. v Teams, coaches and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics Code to ensure a fair and rewarding competition for all. v  On the competition day it is down to the teams, coaches and judges together to deliver a fun and fair event.    More information on the WRO Ethics Code can be found here: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.    
--- PAGE 4 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 4 / 25 
 2. Team and Age Groups definitions   2.1. A team consists of 2 or 3 students. 2.2. A team is guided by a coach. 2.3. 1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate. 2.3.1. A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season. 2.4. A student may only participate in one team. 2.5. The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old. 2.6. Coaches may work with more than one team. 2.7. The age group for this category is defined as students aged 11 up to 19 years. (In season 2026: born years 2007-2015) 2.8. The maximum age indicated represents the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the competition, not his/her age on the competition day.  3. Responsibilities and team’s own work   3.1. A team should play fair and be respectful towards teams, coaches, judges and competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO Guiding Principles that can be found at: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code. 3.2. Every team and coach need to sign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.  3.3. The construction and coding of the robot may be done only by the team. The task of the coach is to accompany them, help them with organizational and logistical matters and support the team in the case of questions or problems. The coach cannot be involved in the construction and programming of the robot. This applies to both the day of the competition and the preparation.  3.4. A team is not allowed to communicate in any way with people outside of the competition area while the competition is running. If communication is necessary, they should ask the permission of a judge who may allow team members to communicate with others, under a judge’s supervision.  3.5. Team members are not allowed to bring and use mobile (cell) phones or any other communication device into the competition area. 3.6. Any instructions to the robot during a match can be provided only in form of the program. No data are allowed to be entered by interacting a team member/coach/people outside of the competition with the physical parts, sensors or other electronic components of the robot. 3.7. Destruction or tampering with competition courts/tables, materials, or the robots of other teams is prohibited. 3.8. It is not allowed to use a solution (hardware and / or software) that is (a.) the same or too similar to solutions sold or posted online or (b.) the same or too similar to another solution at the competition or clearly not the team’s own work. This includes solutions from teams from the same institution and/or country.   
--- PAGE 5 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 5 / 25 
3.9. If there is a suspicion in relation to rule 3.3 and 3.8, the team will be subjected to investigation and any of the consequences mentioned in 3.10 can apply. Where appropriate rule 3.10.3 may be used to prevent the team under investigation from progressing to the next competition stage, even if the team would win the competition stage where the potential rule breaking has been identified.   3.10. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before a decision is reached, a team or individual team members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules. The interview can include questions about the robot or the program. 3.10.1. A Team may not be allowed to participate in a match and lose by 9:-4. 3.10.2. A team may not be allowed to participate in a game and gets 0 points, the other team gets 3 points. 3.10.3. A team may be disqualified completely from the competition.  4. Game documents and rule hierarchy  4.1. Every year, WRO publishes a new version of general rules for this category including the definitive description of the WRO Double Tennis Game. These rules are the basis for all international WRO events.  4.2. During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&As) that can clarify, extend or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should read these Q&As before the competition.  4.3. The general rule document and Q&As may be different in a country due to local adaptations through the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about the rules that apply in their country. For any international WRO event, only the information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualified for any international WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.  4.4. At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies: 4.4.1. General rule document provides the basis for the rules in this category. 4.4.2. Questions & Answers (Q&As) can override rules in game and general rule documents.   4.4.3. The judge on the competition day has the final word in any decision.      
--- PAGE 6 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 6 / 25 
5. WRO Double Tennis – Game Description & Game Field  Each match of the challenge is for two teams of students. Each team of students prepares two robots. Both robots operate on the same half of the field and their goal is to collaborate on the common task – push all the orange balls from their half to the other team’s half. Initially each half of the field contains 4 orange balls and 1 purple ball. One additional orange ball is placed on the barrier in the middle of the game field. During the match, orange balls will be pushed from one half to another. In addition to pushing their initial orange balls, the team’s robots must constantly find new orange balls delivered from the other half by the robots of the opposing team. As soon as these balls from the opposition are found the robots must plan and perform actions to push these orange balls back. The purple ball on the other hand, should stay on the own half of the game field. Orange balls are counted as 1 and purple balls as -2, and the team with the lowest number at the end wins that match. The orange ball in the middle is not counted, if it stays in the middle and has not moved.  A match takes between one and two minutes. The actual length is randomized right before the start of each match. At the end of the match the winner determined by the number of orange and purple balls on each game field. A game consists of three matches. At RoboSports, judges have a more active role as they need to decide on certain situations during the match as well. This is part of playing sports. The following graphic shows the game field with the game objects.  
 Figure 1. Detailed game field   

--- PAGE 7 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 7 / 25 
The game field consists of two halves. Each half contains one ramp. A barrier separates each half. 
 Figure 2a. Two halves on the game field. There are eight positions for the balls on every half: two randomizable positions for balls on each black line. Two intersections of the black lines are used as starting positions of the robots. 
  Figure 2b. Start positions for the balls and robots    
The game field halves
Balls positions
Robotstart zones
--- PAGE 8 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 8 / 25 
6. WRO Double Tennis – Specific Game Rules  WRO Double Tennis Tournament 6.1. The tournament consists of: 6.1.1. Practice time: During practice time, the contestants may practice in their team area, may queue with their robots to have one practice game on the game field, or may take measurements in the game field in so far as this does not interfere with other teams’ practice. Teams are allowed to make changes to the program or to adjust the robots mechanically. 6.1.2. Check Time: During check time and right before the start of a game, the robots will be checked based on the requirements for robot materials, as mentioned in section 3 above. If a robot does not pass the check, the judges may provide a team up to 3 minutes to address issues found. Only one three-minute period can be provided by judges for a team as part of the check. If, eventually, one of the team’s robots does not pass the robot check by the judges, the team will not be allowed to participate in the game and as a consequence loses all three matches of that game 9:-4. The winning team achieves the total points of 3 for that game. The incompliant team will not be disqualified entirely from the competition as they have time to correct their robot before the next game. 6.1.3. Games: A game consist of three matches of the same two teams in a row. 6.2. A typical competition day may look like this: 6.2.1. Opening Ceremony  6.2.2. 60 minutes practice time (first time slot)  6.2.3. Games. During the game time, teams can modify the robots or practice on other tables (if available) when they are not competing.  6.3. Each team plays every other team or as many other teams as possible (each team always play the same number of games during the competition). Pairing of the teams is random. For example, if there are 10 teams, 45 games will be played. Another tournament scheme (for example, the swiss-system tournament https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss-system_tournament or the double elimination tournament https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-elimination_tournament) can be used for the International Final. 6.4. Teams should prepare and bring all the equipment, software and portable computers they need for the tournament. 6.5. Teams are not allowed to share portable computers and/or the program for the robots on the competition day. 6.6. On the day of the competition, there will be a minimum of 60 minutes of practice time before the start of the first match. 6.7. Teams cannot touch the designated competition areas before the start of the first practice time slot is announced. 6.8. Each team must work during practice time in their specified place until the check time, when the team’s robots must be placed in a designated area (checking area). No mechanisms or programs may be modified after this time. 6.9. Robots may take part in the game only after they have passed the check. 6.10. The team cannot exceed 90 seconds for preparation as soon as they are called by judges for participating in a particular game. If a team does not show up 90 seconds 
--- PAGE 9 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 9 / 25 
after announcement of the judges, it loses that match of the game by 9:-4. If the team fails to show up for an additional 90 seconds for the second match, it loses the whole game with all three matches 9:-4. 6.11. After the end of a particular game, the practice time for two teams continues. Should they wish, they may modify their robots and programs until the judges call for the next game. After this call the check time for such robots starts again.  Starting Configuration: 6.12. After check time and before the match starts, the team is ready to start the robot with one push of a button on the robot. Before this robot start, the location of the balls on the field is determined. The following procedure can be used for this:  1. Toss a coin to determine the location of the first orange ball. Heads mean the ball location A (see the figure 3a), tails mean the ball location B. 2. Repeat the coin toss three more times for the rest of orange balls on one half of the field. 
 Figure 3a. Possible balls’ locations   
A
B
A
B
A
B
A
B
--- PAGE 10 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 10 / 25 
 3. Toss the coin two more times to determine the line used for the purple ball. The purple ball is placed on the free position on this line. 
 Figure 3b. Possible positions of purple ball  4. The arrangement of the balls is applied to the other half of the field so one half of the field is a rotational symmetry of the other and the orange ball in the middle is placed. 
  Figure 4. Ball locations on one half are reflected locations of the ball location on another half   

--- PAGE 11 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 11 / 25 
Matches – Start Configuration:  6.13. Every match is maximum two minutes in length.  6.14. Each of two team’s robots are located in the starting zones on one half of the field with every robot on the field being completely within the zones and no part of any robot is projecting beyond its zone. One starting zone must contain only one robot.  
 Figure 5. Starting zones of the robots 6.15. The position of the robot in the starting zone must be so that the projection of the robot on the game mat is completely within the start zone. 6.16. Teams can start a match with only one robot. In this case the team will be able to use only that one robot for that match. 6.17. Physical adjustments can be made and team members can choose the one program they want to run (this is part of the preparation time); however, teams are not allowed to enter data to a program by changing positions or orientation of the robot’s parts or to make any sensor calibrations on the robot. Teams may not enter data by changing the configuration of the switches, if any. If a team does enter data through physical adjustments, it will be disqualified for that game. 6.18. The robots should then be in a waiting state. Waiting for a Start button to be pressed. A separately installed Push Button can be considered as the Start button. Only one Start button is allowed. 6.19. Judges proceed with the randomization and then give the signal to start the robots. The starting buttons are pressed and the timing for the attempt begins simultaneously, after which the robots will commence their attempt to win the match. 6.20. If a robot is motionless and does not leave the starting zones 10 seconds after the start signal, the judge will remove the robot from the field and the robot must stay off the field the full match. If both robots of a team are not moving 10 seconds after the start signal, the team will lose that match immediately with 9:-4 result.  6.21. If the robot overturns, is unable to move or has other malfunctions, it will be left on the field until the end of the match. Team can decide to remove the robot from the field with the permission of the judge. Removing both robots from the field results in a lost match with 9:-4 result.   
Starting zonesfor robots ofone team Starting zonesfor robots ofanother team
--- PAGE 12 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 12 / 25 
Matches – During the Match:  6.22. Robots must be autonomous and it participates in the matches entirely by itself.  6.23. The robot is allowed to leave any parts of the robot that are not containing main units (controller, motors, sensors) on the field, if needed. As soon as the part is touching the field or its game element and is no longer touching the robot it is considered a free element not part of the robot. Free parts will be removed from the field by the judges as soon as possible. If the robots of the causing team are disturbed by the free parts or the judges (during removal), this will be ignored – the match continues. Any balls that are delivered to the opposing team’s game field (on purpose or by accident) by the free part will be put back in the corners on the game field of the team that created the free part. If the free part touches the other team’s robot or game field the match is stopped and the team with the robot that left the part on the field loses the match by 9:-4. 6.24. Participants are not allowed to interfere with or assist the robots. This includes entering data to a program by giving visual, audio or any other signals to the robots during the match. Team that violates this rule loses the match by 9:-4. 6.25. The robot is allowed to push, kick and throw balls.  6.26. The robot is allowed to drive on to the ramp on its field half. 6.27. The robot is not allowed to touch the ramp’s red area on its field half. If any part of the robot touches the red area, the match is stopped and the team with the robot that violated the rule loses the match by 9:-4.  
 Figure 6. A buffer zone (red area) on the ramp cannot be visited by the robots 6.28. In case a robot touches one of the opponents’ robots the match is stopped and judges decide if it was intentional or not. If it was by accident, the number of the balls on each half is calculated to get the score. If it was on purpose, by any team, that team will lose the match by 9:-4. If a robot permanently reaches over to the other team’s game field (e.g. robot stays in one place and is levitating an arm above the opponent’s game field), 
Forbidden areas
Allowed areas
--- PAGE 13 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 13 / 25 
that would be counted as looking for contact on purpose. 6.29. A team’s robot is not allowed to touch the surface (mat and the ramp’s slope) on the opponent’s half of the field. If such situation happens the match is stopped and the team that violated the rule will lose the match by 9:-4. The robot is allowed to touch the face of the ramp which is perpendicular to the main plane of the game field. 
 Figure 7. Areas that cannot be touched on the opponent’s field half 6.30. The situation when both robots of one team operate simultaneously with more than 4 balls (orange and purple) at the same time is not allowed. Operating a ball means intentionally altering the ball’s movement, keeping the ball motionless or having the ball at least partly surrounded by parts of one or two robots. Accidental contacts with a ball are not counted towards operating (e.g. ball bounces at the robot). If such a situation happens the teams have 5 seconds time to change it otherwise the match will be stopped and the number of balls on each half of the field will be calculated to get the score, the judges will count down 5 seconds.  6.31. If an orange ball goes out of the game field, it will be returned to the half of the team that throw the ball out, and judges will put it in one of the corners (in any situation). If a purple ball goes out of the game field, it will be returned to the half of the opposing team and judges will put it in one of the corners (in any situation).   Matches – End of a match (Refer to the attached table for more details):   6.32. The match ends and the time is stopped if any of the following conditions occurs (see table in the attachment for further details): 6.32.1. The match timer expires. 6.32.2. The robot of one team touches the robot of another team or the surface (mat and the ramp’s slope) on the opponent’s half of the field. 6.32.3. The robot changes its size as so dimensions exceed 200x200 mm and 200 mm in height. In case the dimensions of the robot exceed the allowed size because of a malfunction or accident the team can decide to remove the damaged robot immediately from the field and go on with only one robot.  6.32.4. If all orange balls are situated on the same half of the game field after the first 30 seconds of the match and for 10 seconds, the match is stopped and the score is counted. It does not matter if purple balls are still in the game. Judges will announce when the 30 second mark is reached.  6.32.5. Any team member touches a robot, a ball, the field mat, the ramp, the barrier or the 
Touchable areas
Untouchable areas
--- PAGE 14 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 14 / 25 
wall. Only exception is if a team member removes a damaged robot from the field (6.21.). 6.32.6. The robot drives outside of the game field. 6.32.7. The robot damages a ball. 6.32.8. The robot or team member damages the field or a game element. 6.32.9. Stop by agreement: if both robots of both teams get stuck in a program loop which does not lead to any further meaningful action, the two teams can decide to end the match and the scores are calculated. The clear consent of both teams is needed. 6.32.10. If both robots of a team are removed from the game field (e.g. as damaged robots). 6.33. Team members must stop their robots when the judge signals that the match is stopped. The robots must stay on the field till the teams are given permission by the judge to take them off. Team members must not move the balls either from one half of the field to another or outside of the field. If a team violates the rule, they will forfeit the match by 9:-4.  6.34. A ball (or balls) pushed, kicked or thrown by the robots after the judge’s signal that the match is stopped must be returned to those halves of the field where the robots moved them from. If there is uncertainty as to whether a ball was moved before or after the signal, the judge is allowed to return it back to that half of the field where the robot responsible for the ambiguous movement of the ball is located. 6.35. The judges will base their decisions on the rules and fair game play. They have the final decision on the competition day.  Please be aware that, as this is a team versus team competition, should a dispute happen the decision of a judge could result in one of the teams losing.    7. WRO Double Tennis – Scoring  7.1. The official score will be calculated at the end of each match by the judges. The winner in the group of two teams is identified after three matches. 7.2. The ball score is calculated for both teams based on the number of balls on their half. Orange balls are counted as +1. Purple balls are counted as -2. The ball score for each team can be between -4 and +9. 7.3. The winner of a particular match is decided as follows: 7.3.1. ball score on the half of one team (T1) – BT1  7.3.2. ball score on the half of the other team (T2) – BT2  7.3.3. if T1 has a lower ball score it wins (BT1 < BT2), if T2 has a lower ball score it wins (BT1 > BT2), if they have an equal ball score, they are tied (BT1 = BT2). 7.4. If a ball is not in contact with any robot, the position of the ball on the field defines which team it belongs to. If a ball is in contact with a robot, the balls count towards the robot’s team.  7.5. If the match is stopped due to the actions of a member of one of the teams (e.g., a team member touches a robot), the team which this participant belongs to loses the match by 9:-4. 7.6. The team which won the most matches of the game wins and gets 3 points, the other team gets 0. Winning 2 matches is an obvious win, but also if a team wins 1 match and 
--- PAGE 15 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 15 / 25 
the other two is a tie then the team wins the game. 7.7. If all three matches are a tie, then the game result is a tie as well with both teams getting 1 point. If each team won one of the matches and one match is a tie, the result of the game is a tie. 7.8. The team must verify and sign the score sheet after the game, unless they have a fair complaint. 7.9. The teams’ rankings for tournament (with teams in a table) are based on the sum of each team’s points received in the games. If two teams have the same sum of points the following criteria are then considered (listed in the priority order): 7.9.1. number of violations: the team with fewer violations has a better ranking, more details on possible violations you can find in the chapter 12, the table of violations and end of matches situation. 7.9.2. The sum of the balls (orange counts as +1 and purple as -2) / ball score on the opponent’s half of the field in each match: across all the matches each of the drawn team plays, the team whose opponents have, collectively, got the greater number of balls wins. 7.9.3. If the ranks of two teams are still the same, judges can consider to have additional set of matches until one team has two wins more (in additional matches) than another team. 7.10. If the tournament mode uses (in addition to a table) a knock-out mode, it is necessary to determine a winner for each game. If a game would result into a tie because of match results, then the winner is determined by violations first (as in 7.9.1) and by ball score secondly (as in 7.9.2). If the two teams are still ranked the same, one or more additional matches needs to be played to determine the winning team of the game.  7.11. Video or photo proofs will not be accepted or discussed.   
--- PAGE 16 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 16 / 25 
8. Robot material & regulations  8.1. Teams must build two robots. Each robot’s dimensions must not exceed 200x200 mm and 200 mm in height during the whole match.  8.2. Teams are allowed to use any materials and components to build their robots, as long as the following criteria are fulfilled: 8.2.1. Total weight <= 1,2 kg 8.2.2. Battery  <= 6.000 mAh  Only one battery is allowed.  When using batteries, teams must comply with the manufacturer's instructions for use and must not use the batteries outside the manufacturer's specifications. 8.2.3. Voltage of electric components <= 12 V  It is not allowed to use boost converters, that transform to a higher voltage. The battery has to be the component with the highest voltage. Transforming to lower voltages is allowed. 8.2.4. Current / Amperage <= 4A 
8.2.5. Stop-Button One (1) obviously recognizable stop button is needed to stop the robot. When the button is pressed during the run, every movement has to stop immediately. 8.2.6. Sensors There are no limitations on the type or number of sensors in general. 8.2.7. Motors Normal DC motors, servo motors and stepper motors are allowed.   Brushless DC electric motor (BLCD motors), Solenoids and Linear motors are not allowed. 8.2.8. Wheels and tracks Any kind of wheels (including omni wheels) or tracks can be used. Contact with the mat must be such that the mat is not damaged. In particular, pointed and metallic contact surfaces must be avoided. Wheels are not allowed to leave sticky material on the field. 8.2.9. Mechanical components (risk of injury) 
Mechanical components must be designed in such a way that they do not pose a risk of injury. Robots that pose a risk of injury have to be modified on the request of Judges without discussion or will be excluded from the competition. 
--- PAGE 17 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 17 / 25 
8.2.10. Electric and electronic components (risk of injury) 
Electric and electronic components must be designed in such a way that they do not pose a risk of injury. Robots that pose a risk of injury will be excluded from the competition. Modification is only permitted if there is no risk of injury to the team. 
8.2.11. Gasses Only normal air from the atmosphere may be used. All other gasses are not permitted. 8.2.12. Liquids No liquids may be used for the robot. This also applies to oil or other lubricants. Only exception is if they are safely enclosed in prebuild components like in motors. 8.2.13. Spray bottles / Aerosol bottles It is not permitted to use any spray bottles with liquids or gasses. This applies in particular to cooling spray / ice spray and lubricants. 8.2.14. Pneumatic systems Pneumatic systems may be used. They can be filled by the robot itself or by hand before the start. The maximum pressure must not exceed 3 bar. If the system is specified for a lower pressure, the specification is the upper limit. The maximum volume for tanks in the system is 150 ml. 8.2.15. Hydraulic systems Hydraulic systems are not allowed. 
8.2.16. Breakable materials It is not allowed to use any materials that can easily break in many pieces or that leave dangerous edges after breaking, like glass. 8.2.17. 3D printed materials 3D printed materials and parts can be used. 3D printing during the competition is not allowed. 8.2.18. Laser The usage of lasers is limited to lasers that do not provide a risk of safety. A certificate is needed, that the laser is save for eyes. 8.2.19. Colour of materials It is not allowed to use purple or orange parts or to show orange or purple colours on a display. 8.2.20. Important note and Q&A The open rules are new. If a team has great ideas, that differ much from the old way RoboSports worked, they should check with their National Organizer and the National Organizer with WRO, if that is ok. There will be updates and additions to this table in the Q&A. Check them regularly. https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/  8.3. Robots are not allowed to fly or use fans to move balls. 8.4. Teams can bring tools to repair or modify their robot. The tools must be safe, must not pose a major risk of injury, have to fit on the table of the team and must be battery 
--- PAGE 18 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 18 / 25 
operated. Especially the following items are not permitted: 3D printer, saws, soldering irons, knives. 8.5. Teams can use Bluetooth or Wi-Fi for their robots’ communication during the matches.  8.6. Any kind of communication between robots and any other device apart from the team’s other robot is forbidden. The judges can inspect the code and the robots in order to confirm that it is not used by any means. 8.7. The use of SD cards or USB-sticks to store programs is allowed. That hardware must be inserted before check time and may not be removed until the next practice time starts.  8.8. Teams should bring enough spare parts. In the case of any accidents or equipment malfunction, WRO (and/or organizing committee) is not responsible for their maintenance or replacement. 8.9. The teams can bring the robots assembled. 8.10. Contestants may prepare the program for the robots beforehand. Multiple programs can be used for different strategies, but the program to be used in a given match has to be picked before the randomization of the balls. It is not allowed to enter data (like the balls position) by the use of different programs. Judges are allowed to check programs. 8.11. Control software can be written in any programming language – there are no requirements to use a specific language. 8.12. Teams can only have a maximum of two controllers (one per robot) with themselves in the competition area.  8.13. Pneumatic systems can be used and filled with air during practice. If the pump is part of the robot, the system can be filled by hand between matches as well.  9. Game table and equipment   Game Table & Field 9.1. In this category, the robots play double tennis. Every field consists of a game table (an even ground with borders) and a printed mat that is put into the game table.  9.2. The dimensions of a WRO mat in any age group are 2362 mm x 1143 mm. All Game Tables are the same size, though a tolerance of +/- 5mm in length and width is given. The official height of the borders of a game table is 100mm, higher borders can be used as well. The borders are a bit higher than those of the RoboMission category tables, but in every other respect they are the same size. Due to the use of the balls, the higher borders are necessary for a better game play. The higher borders can be added (e.g. attached to) a RoboMission table. The thickness of the walls is not defined. 9.3. The inner color of the walls is white. The outer color of the walls is not defined.  9.4. The game mat must be printed with a matt finish/overlay (without reflecting colors!). The preferred printing material is a PVC tarp with around 510 g/m² (Frontlit). The material of the game mat should not be too soft (e.g. no mesh banner material).  9.5. The width of the thin black lines is 20 mm, the width of the thick black lines is 60 mm. 9.6. The diameter of the ball location areas is 50 mm. The color of the line is orange (RGB: 250, 204, 0). 9.7. The size of robot starting zones is 200 x 200 mm. The color of the dashed lines surrounding the zones is green (RGB: 133, 188, 87). 9.8. Two ramps 300 x 563 x 50 mm are fixed on the field. The material of the ramps is wood, laminated chipboard or styrofoam. The main color of the ramp slope is green (RGB: 
--- PAGE 19 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 19 / 25 
133, 188, 87). The width of the blue (RGB: 0, 112, 192) area is 100 mm. The width of the red (255, 0, 0) area is 50 mm. The color of the rest of the ramp is white. 9.9. The barrier size is 1562 x 17 x 50 mm. It is rigidly fixed to the field. 
 Figure 8. The game field map with sizes   
133
210 50
200
200
20 202020
20 60
1181
100
2362668
1143220220 303
125
400
--- PAGE 20 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 20 / 25 
Balls  9.10. Every ball is a standard ping pong ball with a diameter of 40mm.  9.11. The colors of the balls are orange and purple.  9.12. 9 orange balls and 2 purple balls are required per game field. 9.13. The national and regional competition could use balls of another color but they must be different from the other elements of the field. The event organizers could consider changing the colors of the field mat in order to make the balls distinguishable. They need to inform the teams about the changes from the beginning.     
--- PAGE 21 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 21 / 25 
10. Ideas for simplification  Note: As mentioned at the beginning, these rules are made for all international WRO events. National Organizers can decide to change the rules for local needs. Here, are two ideas that could make the game easier.  Idea 1 – Larger Game Objects The competition with ping pong balls mostly focuses on the robots with cameras. National Organizers could consider to adapt the challenge for the robots without cameras by using LEGO® plastic 52 mm balls (Element ID: 4156530) or tennis balls with the diameter 65-68 mm. Idea 2 – Simplified game field There is the option of having the game field without the ramps: 
 Figure 9. Field without the ramps 
 Figure 10. Field without the ramps but with barriers   

--- PAGE 22 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 22 / 25 
11. Glossary  Check Time  During the check time, the judge will take a look at the robot and check the measurements (e.g. with a cube or a folding rule) and other technical requirements. A check needs to be done before every game.  Coach A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach them and guide them through the problem identification and in discovering ways to solve the competition challenge. Competition organizer The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together with WRO Association running the International WRO Final.  Game A game consists of three matches of the same two teams in row. The team which won the most matches of the game wins and gets 3 points, the other team gets 0. (Refer to 7.6) Match Two teams play, with two robots each, a match that is scored. A team wins a match if it has a lower ball score on the own part of the field at the end of the match.  Practice Time  During the practice time, the team can test the robot on the field and the team can change mechanical aspects or the coding of the robot.  Team In this document the word team includes the 2-3 participants (students) of a team, not the coach who should only support the team.  WRO In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world-wide and that prepares all the game and rule documents.      
--- PAGE 23 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 23 / 25 
12. Appendix – Table of Decisive Cases  Row Rule Rule Description The result of the Match/ Game Remarks 
1 3.1 ~ 3.10 Violation of Ethics Code and unfair behavior. 
The violating team loses that Game 0-3 or gets disqualified from the entire tournament depending on how serious is the violation. 
[Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the result of 9:-4. 
2 6.1.2 If one of the team’s robots does not pass the robot check by the judges, the team will not participate in that Game. The violating team loses that Game 0-3. [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the result of 9:-4. 
3 6.10 
If a team does not show up 90 seconds after announcement of the judges, it loses that match of the game by 9:-4. If the team fails to show up for an additional 90 seconds for the second match, it loses the whole game with all three matches 9:-4. 
The violating team loses the Match or the Game. [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the result of 9:-4. 
4 6.17 If a team enters data through physical adjustments, the team will not participate in that Game. The violating team loses that Game 0-3.  [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the result of 9:-4. 5 6.20 If both robots of a team are not moving 10 seconds after the start signal, the team will lose that match immediately. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4.  
6 6.21 Removing both robots from the field results in a lost match with 9:-4 result. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4.  
7 6.23 
If the part left by one robot prevents balls to be delivered from one half of the game field to another, or the part left by one robot is moved to the half dedicated for another team’s robots, the Match is stopped and the team with the robot that left the part on the field loses that Match. 
The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
8 6.24 Entering data to a program by giving visual, audio or any other signals to the robots during the match is a violation and the violating team loses that Match. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
9 6.27 If any part of the robot touches the red area on the ramp, the Match is stopped and the team with the robot that violated the rule loses that Match. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
--- PAGE 24 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 24 / 25 
10 6.28 If the robot of one team touches the other team’s robot by accident, the match will be stopped and scored as is. The judges have to decide if the touch was by accident after taking all circumstances into consideration. 
The match will be stopped and scored.  
11 6.28 If the robot of one team touches the other team’s robot on purpose, the violating team loses that Match. The judges have to decide if the touch was on purpose after taking all circumstances into consideration. 
The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
12 6.29 A team’s robot touches any surface (mat, the ramp’s slope, wall) on the opponent’s half of the field. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
13 6.30 The situation when both robots of one team operate simultaneously with more than 4 balls (orange and purple) at the same time for more than 5 seconds is not allowed. The match will be stopped and scored.  
14 6.32.1 The match timer expires. The teams have to stop their robots when the judge calls out STOP. Then scoring takes place. 
All balls that are passed over to the opponent’s game field after call of the judge must be placed back to where it was when the judge called STOP. 15 6.32.2 The robot of one team touches the robot of another team or the surface (mat, the ramp’s slope, wall) on the opponent’s half of the field. This is considered a violation and the violating team loses the Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
16 6.32.3 The robot changes its size as so dimensions exceed 200 x 200 x 200 mm. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4.  [Violation] 
17 6.32.4 
After the first 30 seconds of the match is passed, there is a situation when all orange balls are on the same half of the game field for more than 10 seconds. The balls loaded to the robots on this half are counted as well. This means that the teams must not control all in-game balls for more than 10 seconds, and the judge announce this situation by counting down 10 seconds and the violating team loses the Match 9:-4. 
The violating team loses that Match 9:-4.  
18 6.32.5 Any team member touches a robot, a ball, the field mat, the ramp, the barrier or the wall. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
--- PAGE 25 ---
  WRO RoboSports Category – General Rules  
 World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026 Page 25 / 25 
19 6.32.6 The robot drives outside of the game field. 
If one robot drives outside the game field, the match continues. If both robots do it, it is considered a violation and the violating team loses the match 9:-4. [Violation] 
20 6.32.7 The robot damages a ball. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 21 6.32.8 The robot or team member damages the field or a game element. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
22 6.32.9 
Stop by agreement: if both robots of both teams get stuck in a program loop which does not lead to any further meaningful action, the two teams can decide to end the match and the scores are calculated. Important that to do this the clear consent of both teams are needed.  
The match will be stopped and scored.  
23 6.32.10 Both robots of one team are removed from the field. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4.  
24 6.33 A team member removes robots or balls from the field without the permission of the judges. The violating team loses that Match 9:-4. [Violation] 
25 7.9.1 The Violations in this table should be taken into consideration for the ranking.      
